[pop music playing]
[rotors whirring]
THE GUARDIANS
We're at the location
in Texas, sir.
[man] It's highly likely
that the Zero-Zero cyborgs
have turned to murder in order
to regain their past glory.
They're a danger
to all humanity.
Detain them at once.
Roger that.
Take it down.
[clanking, whirring]
Hi-yah!
All right, let's do this!
[yells]
Stand down, all of you.
They're under the command
of the United Nations.
Fighting will solve nothing.
[Jet groans]
We're with the Transnational
Terrorism Special Guard Force.
I'm the commander of
this division, Takeru Igarashi.
Adjutant General Lieutenant
Catalina Canetti.
Unless I'm mistaken,
you're the Isaac Gilmore
who alerted us.
Correct. I am Dr. Gilmore.
You mind explaining yourselves?
What is all this?
We were hoping
for an explanation from you.
You requested our protection,
yet no one showed up
at the meeting place.
The motel where our target
was staying has been demolished.
The state highway is riddled
with signs of an attack,
and after we had
followed those signs,
we came upon this scene
of devastation,
which could be mistaken
for a battlefield.
And there's the matter
of the two bodies.
Same question, sir.
What is this?
That devastation
was brought on us
by the two men laying there.
[Igarashi]
And so you killed them?
Dr. Gilmore, you and all
your Zero-Zero cyborgs
are under arrest
for first-degree homicide.
[sputters] What are you saying?
[suits whir]
[Canetti]
Ms. Lucy Davenport, I presume?
Yes?
We're placing you
under protective custody.
What's wrong?
Aren't you going to step over?
We can't hand her over to you.
What?
That motel
that was left in ruins,
well, it happened
after we contacted you.
Are you suggesting
that we ordered that attack?
Either that,
or you're just dimwits
who leaked the information.
[Canetti]
You'd better watch your mouth.
Don't misunderstand.
I am well aware
that in the past,
you were fighting for humankind.
For those actions,
I do salute you.
That said,
understand that at this moment,
you're no more
than suspects to us.
Tell me, hot stuff,
exactly what is it
you think we've done?
I think
you've perpetuated violence
as a means of regaining
what you've lost.
What do you mean by that,
Lieutenant?
With the end of the Cold War,
the Zero-Zero cyborgs
went completely off the grid
and were eventually forgotten
by the public.
But today,
world peace is enforced
by our unit, the Guardians,
for the United Nations,
but I believe you may be unhappy
with the status quo.
And so, in order to return
to the limelight as combatants,
you've fabricated
a nonexistent threat.
Are you calling this
some charade we've devised?
Preposterous.
There's no way
that we would ever do that.
None of us wants to fight.
We just want
to live normal lives.
Then you won't mind
if we verify that.
Starting with Ms. Davenport,
give us your account
of recent events.
All right.
It'll be all right.
Everything is fine.
[scoffs] Damn it.
How dare they call us murderers?
Well, we did kill them.
That is true.
[Chang]
But that was just self-defense!
If we were to show them
what Lucy brought us,
it might clear things up.
Since we can't fully trust
the United Nations,
it would be better
not to hand that over.
She's not planning
to do it, either.
The interrogation's
about to start.
[static buzzing]
What's wrong?
They're jamming us.
No wonder they're
the crown jewel of the U.N.
At this rate, we won't pick up
any audio or video.
[Dr. Gilmore] Hmm.
For the moment,
I'm afraid there's no choice
but to wait and see.
I'm sure that you'll find this
hard to believe,
but the Blessed
are behind all of this.
For generations,
they've manipulated
human society from the shadows.
The Blessed, huh? Hmm.
[communicator chimes]
Captain,
we've identified the bodies.
A teacher from New Mexico?
Edward Higgins, age 48,
a physics teacher
who resides in Torrance County.
He's been on staff
at his current high school
for the last 12 years,
diligent and had
a great work ethic.
He was popular
with his students,
and his private life
was beyond reproach.
Right. Now then,
you're absolutely sure
the other one is Arnold Knox?
Yes.
A multimillionaire from Texas,
and the other a high school
teacher from New Mexico.
Transport the bodies to the lab.
Have them perform
thorough tests.
See if they check out as normal.
Are you starting to believe
the cyborgs' story, Captain?
Don't know.
However, there's no question
that something went down here.
What is that?
It's the weather data
for this area.
I'm interested
in the time period
they claim Knox attacked them.
Look. A tornado.
It seems to have appeared
out of nowhere.
And there's a long list
of other abnormal changes
in the weather.
[Canetti] It's time-stamped
just before we arrived here.
How could anybody
possibly do this?
For the time being,
I'll continue the interrogation.
Keep a close watch
on all of those cyborgs.
Yes, sir.
[metallic footsteps thumping]
[Françoise] I wonder if he's
going to be out for a while.
Probably.
Think of how much power he used.
Wouldn't be surprised at all.
You're right.
[gasps]
Lieutenant Canetti?
You can call me Catalina.
Is eavesdropping
standard practice?
I lost sight of you,
so I came to look. That's all.
Sorry.
We're a little worried
about Ivan.
Ivan Whisky. The psychic, right?
Hold on!
Is he asleep?
[Joe] Mm-hmm.
He used up most of his power
in yesterday's battle.
He's fine,
but when he'll actually wake up,
well, that's anyone's guess.
He certainly doesn't look as if
he has immense power, does he?
Once he falls asleep, you can't
see how extraordinary he is.
You're right.
When he's like this,
he's just as a cute as a baby.
Are you happy now?
Then would you
please leave us alone?
I need to warn you.
It's putrid.
I'll chance it.
The Blessed.
You said your father
came up with that name, right?
-Yes.
-If you don't mind,
I'd like to hear
more about him in detail.
What do you want to know?
I'm afraid I wouldn't
know where to start.
[Guardian] Captain,
the Director is on the line.
On my way.
Captain, how long
are you planning
to spin your wheels there?
If you've detained
Dr. Gilmore and his team,
bring them in
without further delay.
Something
doesn't feel right here.
Before I bring them, I'd like
to do a little more digging.
I didn't send you out there
so you could play detective.
They brutally
murdered civilians
in order
to make themselves relevant.
I have no intention
of letting that continue.
Captain Igarashi,
I'm ordering you again.
Bring Dr. Gilmore
and the Zero-Zero cyborgs
into our custody.
You may use deadly force
if they resist
[sighs]
What is it you'd like
to discuss, Captain?
I'm going to take all of you in
to headquarters.
And if we refuse?
Then I'll have to use force.
[Heinrich] What about Lucy?
She'll be coming with you to HQ.
And after that?
That's up to my superiors.
And you cannot defy
your superiors' orders?
Middle management positions
are such a drag, aren't they?
Say whatever you want.
However,
please remember one thing.
Ensuring the peace in our world
is the Guardians'
sacred mission,
even if we should come up
against bizarre monsters.
You need to tell HQ
exactly what you saw.
If the Blessed are controlling
the world from the shadows,
they shouldn't be happy
about having their cover blown.
I'll be waiting outside.
[door closes]
So what are we gonna do now?
Don't tell me
you're all planning
to go with these creeps.
It's obvious
we can't trust them.
No...
let's surrender.
[gasps]
Seriously?
Just like he said,
I agree this is our chance
to expose the Blessed.
You don't think
it could be a trap?
[Pyunma]
Couldn't they be planning
to kill us all along with Lucy?
Yes, that's a possibility,
but if we resist now, we give
credence to their doubts,
and they could
pin everything on us.
If that happens,
then the Blessed win for sure.
[sighs]
I think Joe
might be right about this.
Do you think they'll come out?
Who knows?
Eh?
Huh.
[gasps]
[Françoise] Get down!
[coughs]
Bastards!
No! That wasn't us!
[grunting]
Why'd they fire?
They must have staged this
after all.
They were afraid
of being exposed.
What in the blue blazes?
Was it the Blessed again?
Where are they?
I don't detect
any intruders nearby.
Huh?
002!
[Joe] Back off, 002.
Don't fight back.
That's not an option anymore!
-[Françoise] 002!
- Huh?
Damn.
003, I owe you one.
[Jet] Hey, get down, you guys!
[gasps]
All units,
advance, and maintain fire.
Surround the targets,
and take them.
[sighs]
[weapon cocks]
[groans]
This isn't even
gonna slow them down.
Ai-yah!
Even my flames don't work!
[yelping]
007, on your six!
Got it.
It bloody deflected my shot.
Optical weapons are a bust,
too? [gasps]
[gasps]
Our house.
009, at this rate...
I know.
[Joe] Everyone, let's meet up
in the basement.
Damn.
Targets are retreating.
Advance on them.
[Dr. Gilmore] Remember, Joe,
they're only doing their duty,
like any soldiers.
Accelerator!
[thinking] Damn it.
How long do we have to hide?
How far do we have to run?
They've taken away the life
that we finally got to live.
We've lost our home,
and it's still not enough?
Why can't you understand?
All we want...
What's wrong? Why aren't
you going through with it?
[gasps]
Simple. You're not our enemy.
[whoosh]
Wait. What is this?
All systems are go.
We can take off anytime, Doctor.
Dolphin III, time to move.
[rumbling]
What's that sound?
[Igarashi] They had that thing
hidden all the time?
Contact H.Q.
Get the U.S. military
in the loop,
-and track them down.
-Sir!
[Director] That was
a little too close for comfort
in my opinion, but as a result,
nothing has come to light,
and our distrust of the cyborgs
has been validated.
This was a success.
Now there's not
a country in the U.N.
that opposes
hunting down the cyborgs.
It's a pity that we let that
journalist get away, though.
[man] Something
intrigues me more.
Do you mean the infant,
my Emperor?
Yes. I would like
to meet him in person.
Can you set that up for me?
Very well.
[ballad playing]
[singing in Japanese]